# Results

### Algorithms:  

BFS: Breadth-first search is used to traverse the graph, and it does so by visiting each node. This algorithm tells us if there are nodes that are not connected to he start node's connected component, and returns the BFS path through the graph. To test BFS, we ran the BFS algorithm on certain airports. The first test case makes sure that an airport that isn’t in the start node’s connected component does not exist in the path returned by the BFS traversal, which we can see is true. The 2nd and 3rd test case makes sure that an airport that is in the start node’s connected component exists in the path returned by the BFS traversal. The last test starts at a node that is in the main connected component which we found to be 3152. We compared this with the size of the path of the BFS traversal and it returned the same number. 

Floyd-Warshall: Floyd-Warshall is used to find the shortest path between two given airports. It does so by creating an adjacency matrix that stores the distance between each airport, and then iterating through it to find the minimum possible distance between two airports. To test Floyd-Warshall, we calculated the distance between two airports with the shortest path, and checked that the output matched that number. We also tested that the program calculated distance using longitude and latitude coordinates correctly. 

Landmark Path: Landmark Path algorithm allows the user to enter multiple midpoint destinations, in addition to a start and end location. So in the context of our dataset, this algorithm tells us which airports we can stop at when traveling from a source airport to a given destination. We tested this algorithm by passing in a midpoint airport and making sure that there is a shortest path that goes through that airport. We also used our shortest path algorithm to test this and make sure the distances are calculated correctly.


### Answer to the leading question:  
Our leading question was "what is the shortest route between two given airports?". Our program answers this question by taking in any two airports, and using Floyd-Warshall and Landmark Path to find the path between the two airports that minimizes the distance traveled. Through this project, we discovered that even though there may be a route between two given airports, it may not always be the most efficient option to fly that route as a mode of travel. We figured this out by comparing the actual distance between the two airports versus the shortest path distance. If the shortest path distance is greater than the actual distance, then it would be less efficient to fly that path as a mode of transportation. For example, there exists a route between O'Hare airport and Midway airport, as these nodes are part of the same connected component on the graph, however it would be much faster to drive from O'Hare to Midway rather than fly the available route. 
